---
layout: page
title: About
---

Across the twentieth century, many kinds of objects were described as gadgets, from dashboard gauges to atomic bombs, can-openers to smartphones. While "gadget" can be a placeholder for any kind of object, even imaginary ones, its evolving application to particular tools and techniques reveals important lessons about our relationship to technology. The gadget is a unique genre, comprising physical objects, conceptions, and habits.

This site contains research data and working notes for my upcoming book, *Gadgetry: A History of Techniques.*

For this book, I search archives of novels, magazines, and newspapers in order to explore the distinctly vernacular philosophies---the media theories from below---that emerge from users of technology and their everyday practices. Using databases like the Corpus of Historical American English, Historical American Newspapers, and the Media History Digital Library, I proceed by collecting as many instances of the word "gadget" as possible and plugging them into categories of my own making based on how the term is applied: is the gadget handmade or mass produced, seen as important or a trinket? Does the word refer to the entirety of the tool or a component within it? And so on.

Inspired by Otto Neurath's 1920s design of the [ISOTYPE](http://www.designhistory.org/Symbols_pages/isotype.html) system, categories of gadgetry are indicated by icons {% icon fa-tachometer-alt red %} throughout this project.

Because I have hand-coded this "dataset" and designated myself the categories into which I sort each instance of the word (like control mechanisms <a href="/tags/lever"> <i class="fa fa-sliders-h" style="color:red"></i></a> and imaginary devices <a href="/tags/raygun"> <i class="fa fa-rocket" style="color:red"></i></a>), the portrait that emerges of a discourse on technology could be described as entirely of my own making, as opposed to algorithmically-generated. Part of this book is interested in exploring the difference between these two categories of interpretation when it comes to the history of collective mentalities.

<!--

In this book, I draw on my background in literary studies to address some of the most pressing debates in digital culture today by analyzing as a form of fiction the user's imagination of how their gadgets work. For example, a single iPhone contains over half the elements of the periodic table, extracted from almost every continent on the planet and compressed into a thin slab that allows the user to dip her toes into a river of collective affect generated by the social network of everyone she's ever met. This is a fantastically science-fictional experience that is now part of our everyday lives. But the emergence of new digital cultures, political movements, and forms of intimacy are all predicated on the unique habits each user adopts in order to understand these complex gadgets. *Gadgetry* thus departs from conventional studies of media by going beyond the nuts and bolts of a given piece of technology in order to explore the distinctly vernacular philosophies-the media theories from below-that emerge from users and their everyday practices.

-->
